" answered Warwick.  "
" continued the undertaker solemnly, his glance unconsciously seeking a row of fine caskets standing against the wall,--"
" quoted Warwick, with whose mood the undertaker's remarks were in tune, "
" thought Warwick, "
" he murmured.  "
" said the young man to himself, "
" said the elder one. "
" he thought, "
" he muttered with a sigh of relief, for he had feared they might be away.  "
" answered Warwick, not holding it yet time to reveal himself.  "
" was the guarded answer.  "
" she asked with tremulous agitation.  "
" she sobbed, "
" answered the mother.  "
" she answered.  "
" said Warwick, regarding his sister thoughtfully.  "
" said his mother, expostulating mildly, "
" she asserted, "
"--the Hill was the aristocratic portion of the town,--"
" replied her brother, smoothing her hair with his hand.  Her hair was long and smooth and glossy, with a wave like the ripple of a summer breeze upon the surface of still water.  It was the girl's great pride, and had been sedulously cared for.  "
" was the regretful reply, "
" they cried.  "
" he replied calmly, "
" he concluded, "
" they demanded.  "
" he replied; "
" he said reflectively, "
" she cried despairingly, "
" she sobbed, "
" she exclaimed. "
" he said calmly, "
" sighed the mother, "
" continued Warwick, "
" murmured the mother weakly, "
" returned Warwick, with a sympathetic sigh; "
" she moaned, "
" said Warwick tenderly, accepting the implied surrender. "
" replied the mother brokenly. "
" the mother repeated sadly, drying her tears.  "
" asked her mother, "
" returned the judge cautiously, "
" rejoined the judge warmly, extending his hand with great cordiality, and inspecting Warwick more closely through his spectacles.  "
" he mused, "
" she asked, "
" replied the young man, resting his hatchet on the chopping-block.  "
" he replied.  He knew that she would not pay him, for the simple reason that he would not accept pay for such a service.  "
" replied Frank sorrowfully, dropping his mask of unconcern, "
" asked Rena severely, "
" interposed Mis' Molly wistfully, as she hovered around her daughter, giving her hair or her gown a touch here and there; "
" returned Frank, with a disconsolate smile.  "
" said the girl kindly.  "
" she said, with a kind smile; "
" murmured the sympathetic colored woman, "
" he remarked.  "
" exclaimed the judge.  Then after a pause he added, "
" she said, with a curtsy, as she rose to go.  "
" he murmured, with a sigh, "
" observed a lady near the front of the grand stand, leaning over and addressing John Warwick, who was seated in the second row, in company with a very handsome girl.  "
" replied the young lawyer, "
" said the lady, "
" he muttered softly.  "
" replied the knight pleasantly, "
" rejoined the first speaker.  "
" announced the judge, "
" cried the herald; "
" said Tryon, when he had been formally introduced and had shaken hands with Warwick's sister, "
" replied Warwick, "
" replied Warwick.  "
" said Warwick, when they found themselves alone, "
" said Mrs. Newberry, "
" whispered her brother. "
" exclaimed Tryon, breaking into her reverie as the carriage rolled up to the doorstep, "
" said Warwick, when Tryon had been driven away, "
" she murmured sleepily, "
" remarked 'Lissa the cook to Mimy the nurse one day.  "
" he said, clasping with his right hand the hand that rested on his left arm, "
" he observed with mock severity, "
" replied Tryon joyfully, "
" he exclaimed, "
" repeated Warwick; adding, with a touch of solemnity, as a certain thought, never far distant, occurred to him, "
" she asked.  "
" he replied, "
" he resumed, completing the sentence, "
" she murmured, "
" he went on, "
" she replied, with a troubled sigh, "
" she asked herself, "
" he asked with a smile, "
" continued Warwick, "
" he replied, "
" Rena exclaimed with fervor, clasping her hands unconsciously.  "
" said Warwick, "
" said the girl, with a curtsy, "
" exclaimed Rena, coming forward and taking the child from the nurse.  "
" Warwick resumed when the nurse retired.  "
" he said, "
" continued Warwick, without waiting for a reply to his question, "
" replied the young man warmly, "
" replied Tryon. "
" he said to his sister when he went home at noon:  "
" said her lover, "
" she said, glancing at him with a sad thoughtfulness in her large dark eyes.  "
" she asked, with an air of coquetry that masked her concern, pointing toward the girl in the shrubbery, "
" he replied, with a joyous laugh, "
" pleaded Tryon, "
" said Tryon ruefully, the evening before their departure, "
" said Rena to her brother in the morning, "
" answered Warwick lightly, "
" he exclaimed suddenly, striking his knee with his hand, "
" answered the nurse, to whom he had put the question; "
" suggested the nurse, "
" he asked himself. He took a coin from his pocket and spun it upon the floor.  "
" answered the clerk, "
" replied the man to Tryon's question, "
" he answered, "
" replied the boy, "
" exclaimed the doctor cordially, after Tryon had introduced himself, "
" he added later in the conversation, "
" he called to his attendant, "
" he want on, when the colored man had departed, "
" he explained to Tryon, "
" he said.  "
" said the doctor, running on pleasantly, like a babbling brook.  "
" replied the judge, in answer to a question by Dr. Green, "
" replied Tryon.  "
" sighed the judge.  "
" remarked the doctor, "
" he said, "
" he remarked to his companions, after Dave had gone, "
" rejoined the doctor. "
" said the judge promptly. "
" replied the other judicially.  "
" remarked the judge dryly, "
" replied the other, with a flattered smile, "
" continued the doctor ingeniously,--"
" he added a little nervously, "
" exclaimed Dr. Green vivaciously, "
" rejoined the doctor, taking his arm familiarly--they were both standing now. "
" said the judge, "
" exclaimed the doctor, "
" murmured the judge.  "
" he mused, "
" he answered himself.  "
" he said to himself, turning to his desk and taking up a quill pen, "
" he said, handing the boy the note, "
" she exclaimed weakly, "
" she murmured, "
" she thought, "
" he mused, "
" said Frank to himself, "
" argued the tempter, "
" mused Mis' Molly, in vague alarm.  "
" replied Dave, "
" she mused.  "
" replied her husband, shaking his forefinger at her in mock reproach. "
" she rejoined reflectively.  "
" rejoined the doctor slyly, "
" said the lady, "
" rejoined the doctor, "
" replied the doctor, "
" interrupted Mrs. Green, with placid good nature.  "
" remarked the doctor. "
" replied Tryon, who felt in this company a thrill of that pleasure which accompanies conscious superiority,--"
" exclaimed the doctor, "
" said Miss Mary. "
" assented the doctor. "
" he exclaimed, looking at his watch, "
" answered Tryon.  "
" he added to himself fervently, "
" he said to Tryon, "
" replied the man; "
" the man replied, touching his hat.  "
" exclaimed the judge.  "
" mused the judge. "
" he thought, "
" he said at length, in a low voice.  "
" exclaimed the judge in genuine surprise at this answer; "
" asked the judge, speaking rather to himself than to the boy.  "
" he ordered, pointing to a chair on the other side of the room.  That he should ask a colored lad to be seated in his presence was of itself enough to stamp the judge as eccentric. BBYou want to be a lawyer,"
" replied the lad, turning back his sleeve and holding out his arm, "
"  he said, "
" rejoined the judge, taking up the pamphlet he had laid down upon the lad's entrance, "
" replied the boy, "
" returned the lawyer, shaking his head.  "
" exclaimed the old gentleman, "
" said the lad, "
" he repeated.  "
" he continued, taking another book. "
" he read, "
" replied the lawyer, "
" said the boy, "
" returned the judge, chuckling with quiet amusement.  "
" he said soothingly.  "
" she sobbed.  "
" replied Warwick soothingly,--"
" suggested Warwick.  "
" she cried angrily, when he had finished, "
" she went on, "
" she replied firmly, "
" retorted Warwick.  "
" continued Rena dreamily, "
" continued Rena, intent upon her own thought, "
" he said, with a sudden impulse, "
" said Rena, "
" he said, concluding the argument, "
" said Mis' Molly "
" said Warwick, extending his hand and clasping Frank's warmly.  "
" he said, looking Warwick over with a friendly eye, "
" returned Frank deprecatingly, "
" added Rena, "
" exclaimed Frank; "
" he protested, "
" exclaimed his neighbor, with a well-simulated air of mystification, "
" she replied, "
" said Rena reproachfully--she had come in while they were talking.  "
" expostulated Frank, his reluctance yielding immediately. "
" remarked Peter, at the breakfast-table, when informed of the transaction, "
" she would ask, stroking his hot brow with her small, cool hand as he sat moodily nursing his grief.  "
" he would reply, with a forced attempt at lightness. "
" assented Mary B.  "
" exclaimed Mis' Molly, struck with awe at this catalogue of the stranger's possessions--he was evidently worth more than a great many 'rich' white people,--all white people in North Carolina in those days were either 'rich' or 'poor,' the distinction being one of caste rather than of wealth.  "
"--Mary B. heaved a self-conscious sigh,--"
" she said, "
" said the visitor, rising.  "
" returned Mis' Molly, with a gratified smile.  "
" rejoined Mis' Molly, with animation, "
" Wain went on, "
" replied Mis' Molly complacently, "
" rejoined Wain, with emphasis.  "
" replied Wain, who had listened with an air of great wisdom, though secretly aware that he was too ignorant of letters to form a judgment; "
" said Rena, "
" said Mary B. to Mis' Molly in the kitchen, "
" replied Mis' Molly. "
" confided Mary B., "
" she added tentatively, "
" he muttered, adding weakly, "
" answered her mother, "
" continued Mr. Wain magnanimously, "
" murmured the ladies.  "
" muttered one young man to another sarcastically.  "
" he replied, "
" observed his father after Mis' Molly had gone back across the street, "
" said Rena.  "
" she said, "
" pleaded Mary B., who followed Miss Molly out to the piazza, "
" added her mother, "
" replied her mother soothingly.  "
" exclaimed Rena. "
" he answered.  "
" explained Wain, "
" she sighed, "
" he said, "
" he muttered to himself, as she went away with Wain.  "
" she surmised.  "
" said Mrs. Tryon one morning while her son was in this cheerful mood, "
" he exclaimed.  "
" replied the young man, "
" replied the lad; "
" whispered a tall yellow boy to the acrobat addressed as Plato.  "
" she exclaimed.  "
" she added, as Tryon turned his head toward her, "
" she said, extending her hand to the teacher.  "
" continued the lady, "
" declared the lady positively. "
" returned Plato proudly,--"
" he would observe sonorously, in the presence of the school, "
" old Mrs. Wain would say, "
" he exclaimed, "
" called Tryon, "
" said Plato, proud to find in Mars Geo'ge an appreciative listener,--"
" remarked Tryon impressively, as they drove into the town, "
" he said, "
" said Plato to her on Tuesday, "
" replied Tryon; "
" rejoined Tryon, shaking his head, "
" said Tryon, pausing here, "
" she suggested, "
" she called; "
" he asked, "
" exclaimed Tryon, with a sudden leap of the heart.  "
" he said, nodding unconsciously, with the careless politeness of a gentleman to his inferiors.  "
" the woman replied respectfully, "
" she concluded, "
" returned the countryman slightingly; "
" he muttered.  "
" said Frank to himself. "
" he exclaimed with a start, "
" she panted.  "
" he groaned.  "
" she cried, in melting tones, "
" she moaned; "
" he sobbed, "
" he murmured caressingly, "
" exclaimed the stranger, "
" he cried, after a closer inspection.  "
" continued the stranger suspiciously.  "
" declared one, after Frank's brief explanation.  "
" replied Frank; adding diplomatically, "
" she murmured, "
" answered Homer Pettifoot, touching his hat, "
