BB'JOHN WARWICK, CLARENCE, SOUTH CAROLINA.'   One of the South Ca'lina bigbugs, I reckon--probably in cotton, or turpentine.QQ
BBGood-mawnin', suh,QQ
BBGood-morning,QQ
BBCan you tell me anything about Judge Straight's office hours?QQ
BBDe ole jedge has be'n a little onreg'lar sence de wah, suh; but he gin'ally gits roun' 'bout ten o'clock er so.  He's be'n kin' er feeble fer de las' few yeahs.  An' I reckon," continued the undertaker solemnly, his glance unconsciously seeking a row of fine caskets standing against the wall,--BBI reckon he'll soon be goin' de way er all de earth. 'Man dat is bawn er 'oman hath but a sho't time ter lib, an' is full er mis'ry.  He cometh up an' is cut down lack as a flower.' 'De days er his life is three-sco' an' ten'--an' de ole jedge is libbed mo' d'n dat, suh, by five yeahs, ter say de leas'.QQ
BB'Death,'" quoted Warwick, with whose mood the undertaker's remarks were in tune, "'is the penalty that all must pay for the crime of living.'QQ
BBDat 's a fac', suh, dat 's a fac'; so dey mus'--so dey mus'.  An' den all de dead has ter be buried. An' we does ou' sheer of it, suh, we does ou' sheer. We conduc's de obs'quies er all de bes' w'ite folks er de town, suh.QQ
BBT'anky', honey; de Lawd gwine bless you sho'.  You wuz alluz a good gal, and de Lawd love eve'ybody w'at he'p de po' ole nigger.  You gwine ter hab good luck all yo' bawn days.QQ
BBI hope you're a true prophet, Aunt Zilphy,QQ
BBA woman with such a figure,QQ
BBought to be able to face the world with the confidence of Phryne confronting her judges.QQ
BBIt must be Rena,QQ
BBWho could have dreamed that she would blossom out like that?  It must surely be Rena!QQ
BBYes,QQ
BBit's Rena, sure enough.QQ
BBI jes' wonder who dat man is, an' w'at he 's doin' on dis street,QQ
BBNev' min' 'bout dat man,QQ
BBYou 'ten' ter yo' wuk an' finish dat bairl-stave. You spen's enti'ely too much er yo' time stretchin' yo' neck atter other people.  An' you need n' 'sturb yo'se'f 'bout dem folks 'cross de street, fer dey ain't yo' kin', an' you're wastin' yo' time both'in' yo' min' wid 'em, er wid folks w'at comes on de street on account of 'em.  Look sha'p now, boy, er you'll git dat stave trim' too much.QQ
BBIt's more than likely,QQ
BBthat they are in the kitchen.  I reckon I'd better try the back door.QQ
BBThey are there,QQ
BBI suspect I'll have to go to the front door, after all. No one can see me through the trees.QQ
BBWho's there?QQ
BBA gentleman,QQ
BBDoes Mis' Molly Walden live here?QQ
BBYes,QQ
BBI'm Mis' Walden.  What's yo'r business?QQ
BBI have a message to you from your son John.QQ
BBYou 've got a message from my son, you say?QQ
BBIs he sick, or in trouble?QQ
BBNo.  He's well and doing well, and sends his love to you, and hopes you've not forgotten him.QQ
BBFergot him?  No, God knows I ain't fergot him!  But come in, sir, an' tell me somethin' mo' about him.QQ
BBImperious Caesar, dead, and turned to clay,        Might stop a hole to keep the wind away,QQ
BBWhen did you last see my son?QQ
BBI've never met your son,QQ
BBThen the message comes through you from somebody else?QQ
BBNo, directly from your son.QQ
BBJohn, my John!  It IS John!QQ
BBMother--my dear old mother!QQ
BBI didn't think,QQ
BBthat I'd ever see you again.QQ
BBAnd are you glad to see me, mother?QQ
BBAm I glad to see you?  It's like the dead comin' to life.  I thought I'd lost you forever, John, my son, my darlin' boy!QQ
BBI couldn't live without seeing you, mother,QQ
BBYou've grown so tall, John, and are such a fine gentleman!  And you ARE a gentleman now, John, ain't you--sure enough?  Nobody knows the old story?QQ
BBWell, mother, I've taken a man's chance in life, and have tried to make the most of it; and I haven't felt under any obligation to spoil it by raking up old stories that are best forgotten. There are the dear old books: have they been read since I went away?QQ
BBNo, honey, there's be'n nobody to read 'em, excep' Rena, an' she don't take to books quite like you did.  But I've kep' 'em dusted clean, an' kep' the moths an' the bugs out; for I hoped you'd come back some day, an' knowed you'd like to find 'em all in their places, jus' like you left 'em.QQ
BBThat's mighty nice of you, mother.  You could have done no more if you had loved them for themselves.  But where is Rena?  I saw her on the street to-day, but she didn't know me from Adam; nor did I guess it was she until she opened the gate and came into the yard.QQ
BBI've be'n so glad to see you that I'd fergot about her,QQ
BBRena, oh, Rena!QQ
BBYes, mamma,QQ
BBRena, child, here's yo'r brother John, who's come back to see us. Tell 'im howdy.QQ
BBYou're the little sister I used to read stories to, and whom I promised to come and see some day.  Do you remember how you cried when I went away?QQ
BBIt seems but yesterday,QQ
BBI've still got the dime you gave me.QQ
BBYou're a very pretty girl,QQ
BBI followed you down Front Street this morning, and scarcely took my eyes off you all the way; and yet I didn't know you, and scarcely saw your face. You improve on acquaintance; to-night, I find you handsomer still.QQ
BBNow, John,QQ
BByou'll spile her, if you don't min'.QQ
BBNo, he won't, mamma,QQ
BBfor he's flattering me.  He talks as if I was some rich young lady, who lives on the Hill, QQ
BBinstead of a poor.QQ
BBInstead of a poor young girl, who has the hill to climb,QQ
BBWhat lovely hair!  It has just the wave that yours lacks, mother.QQ
BBYes,QQ
BBI've never be'n able to git that wave out.  But her hair's be'n took good care of, an' there ain't nary gal in town that's got any finer.QQ
BBDon't worry about the wave, mother.  It's just the fashionable ripple, and becomes her immensely.  I think my little Albert favors his Aunt Rena somewhat.QQ
BBYour little Albert!QQ
BBYou've got a child?QQ
BBOh, yes,QQ
BBa very fine baby boy.QQ
BBI suppose,QQ
BBthat I have got along at the bar, as elsewhere, owing to the lack of better men.  Many of the good lawyers were killed in the war, and most of the remainder were disqualified; while I had the advantage of being alive, and of never having been in arms against the government.  People had to have lawyers, and they gave me their business in preference to the carpet-baggers.  Fortune, you know, favors the available man.QQ
BBAn' I s'pose you're happy, John?QQ
BBWell, mother, happiness is a relative term, and depends, I imagine, upon how nearly we think we get what we think we want.  I have had my chance and haven't thrown it away, and I suppose I ought to be happy. But then, I have lost my wife, whom I loved very dearly, and who loved me just as much, and I'm troubled about my child.QQ
BBWhy?QQ
BBIs there anything the matter with him?QQ
BBNo, not exactly.  He's well enough, as babies go, and has a good enough nurse, as nurses go. But the nurse is ignorant, and not always careful. A child needs some woman of its own blood to love it and look after it intelligently.QQ
BBDid your wife leave any kin?QQ
BBNo near kin; she was an only child.QQ
BBYou'll be gettin' married again,QQ
BBNo,QQ
BBI think not.QQ
BBIf I had some relation of my own that I could take into the house with me,QQ
BBthe child might be healthier and happier, and I should be much more at ease about him.QQ
BBOh, John,QQ
BBdon't take her away from me! Don't take her, John, darlin', for it'd break my heart to lose her!QQ
BBThere, there, mamma!  Never mind!  I won't leave you, mamma--dear old mamma!  Your Rena'll stay with you always, and never, never leave you.QQ
BBYou love your children, mother?QQ
BBThey're all I've got,QQ
BBan' they cos' me all I had.  When the las' one's gone, I'll want to go too, for I'll be all alone in the world. Don't take Rena, John; for if you do, I'll never see her again, an' I can't bear to think of it.  How would you like to lose yo'r one child?QQ
BBWell, well, mother, we'll say no more about it.  And now tell me all about yourself, and about the neighbors, and how you got through the war, and who's dead and who's married--and everything.QQ
BBGood gracious, Rena!QQ
BBJohn 's be'n in the house an hour, and ain't had nothin' to eat yet!  Go in the kitchen an' spread a clean tablecloth, an' git out that 'tater pone, an' a pitcher o' that las' kag o' persimmon beer, an' let John take a bite an' a sip.QQ
BBI thought of your sweet-potato pone at the hotel to-day, when I was at dinner, and wondered if you'd have some in the house.  There was never any like yours; and I've forgotten the taste of persimmon beer entirely.QQ
BBOf course, mother,QQ
BBI wouldn't think of taking Rena away against your wishes.  A mother's claim upon her child is a high and holy one.  Of course she will have no chance here, where our story is known.  The war has wrought great changes, has put the bottom rail on top, and all that--but it hasn't wiped THAT out. Nothing but death can remove that stain, if it does not follow us even beyond the grave. Here she must forever be--nobody!  With me she might have got out into the world; with her beauty she might have made a good marriage; and, if I mistake not, she has sense as well as beauty.QQ
BBYes,QQ
BBshe's got good sense.  She ain't as quick as you was, an' don't read as many books, but she's keerful an' painstakin', an' always tries to do what's right.  She's be'n thinkin' about goin' away somewhere an' tryin' to git a school to teach, er somethin', sence the Yankees have started 'em everywhere for po' white folks an' niggers too.  But I don't like fer her to go too fur.QQ
BBWith such beauty and brains,QQ
BBshe could leave this town and make a place for herself.  The place is already made. She has only to step into my carriage--after perhaps a little preparation--and ride up the hill which I have had to climb so painfully.  It would be a great pleasure to me to see her at the top. But of course it is impossible--a mere idle dream. YOUR claim comes first; her duty chains her here.QQ
BBIt would be so lonely without her,QQ
BBan' I love her so--my las' one!QQ
BBNo doubt--no doubt,QQ
BBof course you love her. It's not to be thought of for a moment.  It's a pity that she couldn't have a chance here--but how could she!  I had thought she might marry a gentleman, but I dare say she'll do as well as the rest of her friends--as well as Mary B., for instance, who married--Homer Pettifoot, did you say?  Or maybe Billy Oxendine might do for her. As long as she has never known any better, she'll probably be as well satisfied as though she married a rich man, and lived in a fine house, and kept a carriage and servants, and moved with the best in the land.QQ
BBO Lord!QQ
BBwhat shall I do with out her?  It'll be lonely, John--so lonely!QQ
BBYou'll have your home, mother,QQ
BBYou'll have your friends and relatives, and the knowledge that your children are happy.  I'll let you hear from us often, and no doubt you can see Rena now and then.  But you must let her go, mother,--it would be a sin against her to refuse.QQ
BBShe may go,QQ
BBI'll not stand in her way--I've got sins enough to answer for already.QQ
BBShe may go,QQ
BBI'll give her up for her good.QQ
BBThe table 's ready, mamma,QQ
BBRena,QQ
BBhow'd you like to go an' pay yo'r brother John a visit?  I guess I might spare you for a little while.QQ
BBAre you sure you don't care, mamma?QQ
BBOh, I'll manage to git along somehow or other. You can go an' stay till you git homesick, an' then John'll let you come back home.QQ
BBGood-morning, Judge Straight,QQ
BBGood-morning, sir,QQ
BBYou don't remember me, I imagine,QQ
BBYour face seems familiar,QQ
BBbut I cannot for the moment recall your name.  I shall be glad to have you refresh my memory.QQ
BBI was John Walden, sir, when you knew me.QQ
BBYour old office-boy,QQ
BBAh, indeed, so you were!QQ
BBLet me see--you went away a few years before the war, wasn't it?QQ
BBYes, sir, to South Carolina.QQ
BBYes, yes, I remember now!  I had been thinking it was to the North. So many things have happened since then, that it taxes an old man's memory to keep track of them all.  Well, well! and how have you been getting along?QQ
BBAnd you married into a good family?QQ
BBYes, sir.QQ
BBAnd have children?QQ
BBOne.QQ
BBAnd you are visiting your mother?QQ
BBNot exactly.  I have seen her, but I am stopping at a hotel.QQ
BBH'm!  Are you staying long?QQ
BBI leave to-morrow.QQ
BBIt's well enough.  I wouldn't stay too long. The people of a small town are inquisitive about strangers, and some of them have long memories. I remember we went over the law, which was in your favor; but custom is stronger than law--in these matters custom IS law.  It was a great pity that your father did not make a will.  Well, my boy, I wish you continued good luck; I imagined you would make your way.QQ
BBRight and wrong,QQ
BBmust be eternal verities, but our standards for measuring them vary with our latitude and our epoch.  We make our customs lightly; once made, like our sins, they grip us in bands of steel; we become the creatures of our creations. By one standard my old office-boy should never have been born.  Yet he is a son of Adam, and came into existence in the way ordained by God from the beginning of the world. In equity he would seem to be entitled to his chance in life; it might have been wiser, though, for him to seek it farther afield than South Carolina.  It was too near home, even though the laws were with him.QQ
BBGood-evenin', Peter.QQ
BBGood-evenin', ma'm,QQ
BBFrank,QQ
BBcan I git you to do somethin' fer me soon in the mo'nin'?QQ
BBYas 'm, I reckon so,QQ
BBW'at is it, Mis' Molly?QQ
BBMy daughter 's goin' away on the boat, an' I 'lowed you would n' min' totin' her kyarpet-bag down to the w'arf, onless you'd ruther haul it down on yo'r kyart.  It ain't very heavy.  Of co'se I'll pay you fer yo'r trouble.QQ
BBThank y', ma'm,QQ
BBIs she gwine fur?QQ
BBAs fur as Wilmin'ton an' beyon'.  She'll be visitin' her brother John, who lives in--another State, an' wants her to come an' see him.QQ
BBYas 'm, I'll come.  I won' need de kyart--I'll tote de bag.  'Bout w'at time shill I come over?QQ
BBWell, 'long 'bout seven o'clock or half pas'. She's goin' on the Old North State, an' it leaves at eight.QQ
BB'Ten' ter yo' wuk, boy, 'ten' ter yo' wuk.  You 're wastin' yo' time--wastin' yo' time!QQ
BBYou ain't gwine ter be gone long, is you, Miss Rena?QQ
BBOh, no, Frank, I reckon not.  I'm supposed to be just going on a short visit.  My brother has lost his wife, and wishes me to come and stay with him awhile, and look after his little boy.QQ
BBI'm feared you'll lack it better dere, Miss Rena,QQ
BBan' den you won't come back, an' none er yo' frien's won't never see you no mo'.QQ
BBYou don't think, Frank,QQ
BBthat I would leave my mother and my home and all my friends, and NEVER come back again?QQ
BBWhy, no 'ndeed,QQ
BBshe'll be so homesick in a month that she'll be willin' to walk home.QQ
BBYou would n' never hafter do dat, Miss Rena,QQ
BBEf you ever wanter come home, an' can't git back no other way, jes' let ME know, an' I'll take my mule an' my kyart an' fetch you back, ef it's from de een' er de worl'.QQ
BBThank you, Frank, I believe you would,QQ
BBYou're a true friend, Frank, and I'll not forget you while I'm gone.QQ
BBGood-by, Frank,QQ
BBI hope you and mamma will be good friends while I'm gone.QQ
BBPo' chile,QQ
BBI reckon some er her folks is dead, er her sweetheart 's gone back on her, er e'se she's had some kin' er bad luck er 'nuther.  W'ite folks has deir troubles jes' ez well ez black folks, an' sometimes feels 'em mo', 'cause dey ain't ez use' ter 'em.QQ
BBDid your people lose any niggers?QQ
BBMy father owned a hundred,QQ
BBan ancient and fishlike smell,QQ
BBYour son came in to see me the other day,QQ
BBHe seems to have got along.QQ
BBOh, yes, judge, he's done fine, John has; an' he's took his sister away with him.QQ
BBAh!QQ
BBI hope she may do as well.QQ
BBThank you, sir,QQ
BBWe've always knowed that you were our friend and wished us well.QQ
BBIt is a pity,QQ
BBthat men cannot select their mothers.  My young friend John has builded, whether wisely or not, very well; but he has come back into the old life and carried away a part of it, and I fear that this addition will weaken the structure.QQ
BBIvanhoe,QQ
BBbleachers,QQ
BBIt's my first tournament,QQ
BBIt is somewhat different from Ashby-de-la-Zouch.QQ
BBIt is the renaissance of chivalry, Mrs. Newberry,QQ
BBand, like any other renaissance, it must adapt itself to new times and circumstances.  For instance, when we build a Greek portico, having no Pentelic marble near at hand, we use a pine-tree, one of nature's columns, which Grecian art at its best could only copy and idealize.  Our knights are not weighted down with heavy armor, but much more appropriately attired, for a day like this, in costumes that recall the picturesqueness, without the discomfort, of the old knightly harness.  For an iron-headed lance we use a wooden substitute, with which we transfix rings instead of hearts; while our trusty blades hew their way through wooden blocks instead of through flesh and blood.  It is a South Carolina renaissance which has points of advantage over the tournaments of the olden time.QQ
BBI'm afraid, Mr. Warwick,QQ
BBthat you're the least bit heretical about our chivalry--or else you're a little too deep for me.QQ
BBThe last would be impossible, Mrs. Newberry; and I'm sure our chivalry has proved its valor on many a hard-fought field.  The spirit of a thing, after all, is what counts; and what is lacking here?  We have the lists, the knights, the prancing steeds, the trial of strength and skill.  If our knights do not run the physical risks of Ashby-de-la-Zouch, they have all the mental stimulus. Wounded vanity will take the place of wounded limbs, and there will be broken hopes in lieu of broken heads.  How many hearts in yonder group of gallant horsemen beat high with hope!  How many possible Queens of Love and Beauty are in this group of fair faces that surround us!QQ
BBYas, suh, yas, suh, it's her!QQ
BBIt's Miss Rena, sho's you bawn.  She looked lack a' angel befo', but now, up dere 'mongs' all dem rich, fine folks, she looks lack a whole flock er angels.  Dey ain' one er dem ladies w'at could hol' a candle ter her. I wonder w'at dat man's gwine ter do wid her handkercher?  I s'pose he's her gent'eman now.  I wonder ef she'd know me er speak ter me ef she seed me? I reckon she would, spite er her gittin' up so in de worl'; fer she wuz alluz good ter ev'ybody, an' dat let even ME in,QQ
BBWho is the lady, Tryon?QQ
BBA Miss Warwick,QQ
BBMiss Rowena Warwick, the lawyer's sister.QQ
BBI didn't know he had a sister,QQ
BBI envy you your lady.  There are six Rebeccas and eight Rowenas of my own acquaintance in the grand stand, but she throws them all into the shade.  She hasn't been here long, surely; I haven't seen her before.QQ
BBShe has been away at school; she came only last night,QQ
BBWho is he, John?QQ
BBThat, my dear Rowena, is my good friend and client, George Tryon, of North Carolina.  If he had been a stranger, I should have said that he took a liberty; but as things stand, we ought to regard it as a compliment.  The incident is quite in accord with the customs of chivalry.  If George were but masked and you were veiled, we should have a romantic situation,--you the mysterious damsel in distress, he the unknown champion.  The parallel, my dear, might not be so hard to draw, even as things are.  But look, it is his turn now; I'll wager that he makes a good run.QQ
BBI'll take you up on that, Mr. Warwick,QQ
BBIt will be your privilege, Sir George,QQ
BBas the chief reward of your valor, to select from the assembled beauty of Clarence the lady whom you wish to honor, to whom we will all do homage as the Queen of Love and Beauty.QQ
BBOyez! Oyez!QQ
BBSir George Tryon, the victor in the tournament, has chosen Miss Rowena Warwick as the Queen of Love and Beauty, and she will be crowned at the feast to-night and receive the devoirs of all true knights.QQ
BBI suppose John would have a right to call me out, Miss Warwick,QQ
BBfor taking liberties with the property and name of a lady to whom I had not had an introduction; but I know John so well that you seemed like an old acquaintance; and when I saw you, and recalled your name, which your brother had mentioned more than once, I felt instinctively that you ought to be the queen.  I entered my name only yesterday, merely to swell the number and make the occasion more interesting. These fellows have been practicing for a month, and I had no hope of winning.  I should have been satisfied, indeed, if I hadn't made myself ridiculous; but when you dropped your handkerchief, I felt a sudden inspiration; and as soon as I had tied it upon my lance, victory perched upon my saddle-bow, guided my lance and sword, and rings and balls went down before me like chaff before the wind.  Oh, it was a great inspiration, Miss Warwick!QQ
BBWe'll forgive you, George,QQ
BBif you'll come home to luncheon with us.QQ
BBI'm mighty sorry--awfully sorry,QQ
BBbut I have another engagement, which I can scarcely break, even by the command of royalty.  At what time shall I call for Miss Warwick this evening?  I believe that privilege is mine, along with the other honors and rewards of victory,--unless she is bound to some one else.QQ
BBShe is entirely free,QQ
BBCome as early as you like, and I'll talk to you until she's ready.QQ
BBWell, Rena,QQ
BByou have arrived.  Your debut into society is a little more spectacular than I should have wished, but we must rise to the occasion and make the most of it.  You are winning the first fruits of your opportunity.  You are the most envied woman in Clarence at this particular moment, and, unless I am mistaken, will be the most admired at the ball to-night.QQ
BBNow, my dear,QQ
BBthe first thing to do is to get your coronation robe ready.  It simply means a gown with a long train. You have a lovely white waist.  Get right into my buggy, and we'll go down town to get the cloth, take it over to Mrs. Marshall's, and have her run you up a skirt this afternoon.QQ
BBYou're doing splendidly, my dear,QQ
BBI trust your Gracious Majesty is pleased with the homage of your devoted subjects,QQ
BBVery much,QQ
BBKeep up your courage,QQ
BBYou are not only queen, but the belle of the ball.  I am proud of you.  A dozen women here would give a year off the latter end of life to be in your shoes to-night.QQ
BBGood-night, fair Queen!QQ
BBand let your loyal subject kiss your hand in token of his fealty.  May your Majesty never abdicate her throne, and may she ever count me her humble servant and devoted knight.QQ
BBAnd now, sister,QQ
BBnow that the masquerade is over, let us to sleep, and to-morrow take up the serious business of life.  Your day has been a glorious success!QQ
BBIt is a dream,QQ
BBonly a dream.  I am Cinderella before the clock has struck.  Good-night, dear John.QQ
BBGood-night, Rowena.QQ
BBDat chile sutt'nly do lub Miss Rena, an' dat's a fac', sho 's you bawn,QQ
BBYou'll get yo' nose put out er j'int, ef you don't min'.QQ
BBI ain't frettin', honey,QQ
BBMiss Warwick--Rowena,QQ
BBI love you!  Do you--love me?QQ
BBYesQQ
BBWell, children,QQ
BByou are late in getting home from church.  The sermon must have been extremely long.QQ
BBWe have been attending an after-meeting,QQ
BBand have been discussing an old text, 'Little children, love one another,' and its corollary, 'It is not good for man to live alone.'  John, I am the happiest man alive.  Your sister has promised to marry me.  I should like to shake my brother's hand.QQ
BBMy dear George--my dear sister,QQ
BBI am very, very glad. I wish you every happiness.  My sister is the most fortunate of women.QQ
BBAnd I am the luckiest of men,QQ
BBI wish you every happiness,QQ
BBI hope that neither of you may ever regret your choice.QQ
BBCan we not love each other for a while?QQ
BBTo be engaged is a pleasure that comes but once; it would be a pity to cut it too short.QQ
BBIt is a pleasure that I would cheerfully dispense with,QQ
BBfor the certainty of possession. I want you all to myself, and all the time.  Things might happen.  If I should die, for instance, before I married youQQ
BBOh, don't suppose such awful things,QQ
BBI should consider,QQ
BBthat my life had been a failure.QQ
BBIf I should die,QQ
BBI should die happy in the knowledge that you had loved me.QQ
BBIn three weeks,QQ
BBI shall have finished my business in Clarence, and there will be but one thing to keep me here.  When shall it be? I must take you home with me.QQ
BBI will let you know,QQ
BBin a week from to-day.QQ
BBI'll call your attention to the subject every day in the mean time,QQ
BBI shouldn't like you to forget it.QQ
BBWould he have loved me at all,QQ
BBif he had known the story of my past? Or, having loved me, could he blame me now for what I cannot help?QQ
BBThe sins of the fathers shall be visited upon the children,QQ
BBHe says that he loves me.  He DOES love me. Would he love me, if he knew?QQ
BBI think a man might love me for myself,QQ
BBand if he loved me truly, that he would marry me.  If he would not marry me, then it would be because he didn't love me. I'll tell George my secret.  If he leaves me, then he does not love me.QQ
BBWell, Rena, dear,QQ
BBwhat's the matter?  Is there anything you want--money, or what?  I should like to have Aladdin's lamp--though I'd hardly need it--that you might have no wish unsatisfied.QQ
BBThank you, John.  You give me already more than I need.  It is something else, John.  George wants me to say when I will marry him.  I am afraid to marry him, without telling him.  If he should find out afterwards, he might cast me off, or cease to love me.  If he did not know it, I should be forever thinking of what he would do if he SHOULD find it out; or, if I should die without his having learned it, I should not rest easy in my grave for thinking of what he would have done if he HAD found it out.QQ
BBHow long have these weighty thoughts been troubling your small head?QQ
BBSince he asked me last night to name our wedding day.QQ
BBMy dear child,QQ
BByou take too tragic a view of life.  Marriage is a reciprocal arrangement, by which the contracting parties give love for love, care for keeping, faith for faith.  It is a matter of the future, not of the past.  What a poor soul it is that has not some secret chamber, sacred to itself; where one can file away the things others have no right to know, as well as things that one himself would fain forget!  We are under no moral obligation to inflict upon others the history of our past mistakes, our wayward thoughts, our secret sins, our desperate hopes, or our heartbreaking disappointments. Still less are we bound to bring out from this secret chamber the dusty record of our ancestry.       'Let the dead past bury its dead.'  George Tryon loves you for yourself alone; it is not your ancestors that he seeks to marry.QQ
BBBut would he marry me if he knew?QQ
BBMy dear sister,QQ
BBwhy should he know?  We haven't asked him for his pedigree; we don't care to know it.  If he cares for ours, he should ask for it, and it would then be time enough to raise the question.  You love him, I imagine, and wish to make him happy?QQ
BBYes, oh, yes,QQ
BBI'm afraid he'd be unhappy if he knew, and it would make me miserable to think him unhappy.QQ
BBWell, then,QQ
BBsuppose we should tell him our secret and put ourselves in his power, and that he should then conclude that he couldn't marry you?  Do you imagine he would be any happier than he is now, or than if he should never know?QQ
BBPlease, suh,QQ
BBde baby 's be'n oryin' an' frettin' fer Miss Rena, an' I 'lowed she mought want me ter fetch 'im, ef it wouldn't 'sturb her.QQ
BBGive me the darling,QQ
BBIt wants its auntie.  Come to its auntie, bless its little heart!QQ
BBYou wouldn't want to make George unhappy,QQ
BBVery well; would you not be willing, for his sake, to keep a secret--your secret and mine, and that of the innocent child in your arms?  Would you involve all of us in difficulties merely to secure your own peace of mind?  Doesn't such a course seem just the least bit selfish?  Think the matter over from that point of view, and we'll speak of it later in the day.  I shall be with George all the morning, and I may be able, by a little management, to find out his views on the subject of birth and family, and all that.  Some men are very liberal, and love is a great leveler.  I'll sound him, at any rate.QQ
BBI am anxious, John,QQ
BBto have Rowena name the happiest day of my life--our wedding day.  When the trial in Edgecombe County is finished, I shall have no further business here, and shall be ready to leave for home. I should like to take my bride with me, and surprise my mother.QQ
BBAre you sure, George, that your mother will find the surprise agreeable when you bring home a bride of whom you know so little and your mother nothing at all?QQ
BBI think you ought to know, George,QQ
BBthat my sister and I are not of an old family, or a rich family, or a distinguished family; that she can bring you nothing but herself; that we have no connections of which you could boast, and no relatives to whom we should be glad to introduce you. You must take us for ourselves alone--we are new people.QQ
BBMy dear John,QQ
BBthere is a great deal of nonsense about families.  If a man is noble and brave and strong, if a woman is beautiful and good and true, what matters it about his or her ancestry?  If an old family can give them these things, then it is valuable; if they possess them without it, then of what use is it, except as a source of empty pride, which they would be better without? If all new families were like yours, there would be no advantage in belonging to an old one.  All I care to know of Rowena's family is that she is your sister; and you'll pardon me, old fellow, if I add that she hardly needs even you,--she carries the stamp of her descent upon her face and in her heart.QQ
BBIt makes me glad to hear you speak in that way,QQ
BBOh, I mean every word of it,QQ
BBAncestors, indeed, for Rowena!  I will tell you a family secret, John, to prove how little I care for ancestors.  My maternal great-great-grandfather, a hundred and fifty years ago, was hanged, drawn, and quartered for stealing cattle across the Scottish border.  How is that for a pedigree?  Behold in me the lineal descendant of a felon!QQ
BBWell, Rena,QQ
BBI've sounded George.QQ
BBWhat did he say?QQ
BBI told him we were people of no family, and that we had no relatives that we were proud of. He said he loved you for yourself, and would never ask you about your ancestry.QQ
BBOh, I am so glad!QQ
BBNever mind, Mimy, leave him with me,QQ
BBRena, darling,QQ
BBwhen shall it be?  Surely you won't ask me to wait a week. Why, that's a lifetime!QQ
BBYou say you love me,QQ
BBHow much do you love me?QQ
BBI love you all one can love.  True love has no degrees; it is all or nothing!QQ
BBWould you love me,QQ
BBif I were Albert's nurse yonder?QQ
BBIf you were Albert's nurse,QQ
BBhe would have to find another within a week, for within a week we should be married.QQ
BBAnd now, darling,QQ
BBwill you not fix the day that shall make me happy?  I shall be ready to go away in three weeks.  Will you go with me?QQ
BBYes,QQ
BBThis week will seem like a year,QQ
BBbut I'll write every day, and shall expect a letter as often.QQ
BBThe mail goes only twice a week, George,QQ
BBThen I shall have three letters in each mail.QQ
BBJohn,QQ
BBI dreamed last night that mother was ill.QQ
BBDreams, you know, Rena,QQ
BBgo by contraries. Yours undoubtedly signifies that our mother, God bless her simple soul! is at the present moment enjoying her usual perfect health.  She was never sick in her life.QQ
BBRena, my darlin', why did you forsake yo'r pore old mother?  Come back to me, honey; I'll die ef I don't see you soon.QQ
BBBy Jove!QQ
BBwhy shouldn't I run up to Patesville while Rena's gone?  I can leave here at five o'clock, and get there some time to-morrow morning.  I can transact my business during the day, and get back the day after to-morrow; for Rena might return ahead of time, just as we did, and I shall want to be here when she comes; I'd rather wait a year for a legal opinion on a doubtful old note than to lose one day with my love. The train goes in twenty minutes.  My bag is already packed.  I'll just drop a line to George and tell him where I've gone.QQ
BBNo, suh,QQ
BBhe ain't be'n here yet, suh.QQ
BBDe baby 's be'n cryin' for Miss Rena,QQ
BBan' I s'pec' he'd like to see you, suh.  Shall I fetch 'im?QQ
BBYes, bring him to me.QQ
BBHe may easily be in Patesville a day or two without meeting her.  She will spend most of her time at mother's bedside, and he will be occupied with his own affairs.QQ
BBWill he or will he not?QQ
BBHeads, he sees her; tails, he does not.QQ
BBOn the corner, sir,QQ
BBby the market-house, just over the drugstore.  The doctor drove past here only half an hour ago. You'll probably catch him in his office.QQ
BBNo, suh,QQ
BBhe ain't hyuh now. He's gone out to see a patient, suh, but he'll be back soon.  Won't you set down in de private office an' wait fer 'im, suh?QQ
BBYes,QQ
BBI'll wait.QQ
BBC. S. A.,QQ
BBU. S. A.,QQ
BBIs Dr. Green in?  No?  Ask him, when he comes back, please, to call at our house as soon as he can.QQ
BBWas there some one here?QQ
BBYas, suh,QQ
BBa young cullud 'oman wuz in jes' now, axin' fer de doctuh.QQ
BBMy dear boy,QQ
BBI'm delighted to meet you--or any one of the old blood. Your mother and I were sweethearts, long ago, when we both wore pinafores, and went to see our grandfather at Christmas; and I met her more than once, and paid her more than one compliment, after she had grown to be a fine young woman. You're like her! too, but not quite so handsome--you've more of what I suppose to be the Tryon favor, though I never met your father.  So one of old Duncan McSwayne's notes went so far as that? Well, well, I don't know where you won't find them.  One of them turned up here the other day from New York.  BBThe man you want to see,QQ
BBis old Judge Straight.  He's getting somewhat stiff in the joints, but he knows more law, and more about the McSwayne estate, than any other two lawyers in town.  If anybody can collect your claim, Judge Straight can.  I'll send my boy Dave over to his office.  Dave,QQ
BBrun over to Judge Straight's office and see if he's there.  BBThere was a freshet here a few weeks ago,QQ
BBand they had to open the flood-gates and let the water out of the mill pond, for if the dam had broken, as it did twenty years ago, it would have washed the pillars from under the judge's office and let it down in the creek, andQQ
BBJedge Straight ain't in de office jes' now, suh,QQ
BBDid you ask when he'd be back?QQ
BBNo, suh, you didn't tell me ter, suh.QQ
BBWell, now, go back and inquire.  BBThe niggers,QQ
BBare getting mighty trifling since they've been freed. Before the war, that boy would have been around there and back before you could say Jack Robinson; now, the lazy rascal takes his time just like a white man.QQ
BBJedge Straight's dere now, suh,QQ
BBHe's done come in.QQ
BBI'll take you right around and introduce you,QQ
BBI don't know whether the judge ever met your mother or not, but he knows a gentleman when he sees one, and will be glad to meet you and look after your affair.  See to the patients, Dave, and say I'll be back shortly, and don't forget any messages left for me.  Look sharp, now!  You know your failing!QQ
BBNo,QQ
BBI never met his mother; I was a generation ahead of her.  I was at school with her father, however, fifty years ago--fifty years ago! No doubt that seems to you a long time, young gentleman?QQ
BBIt is a long time, sir,QQ
BBI must live more than twice as long as I have in order to cover it.QQ
BBA long time, and a troubled time,QQ
BBI could wish that I might see this unhappy land at peace with itself before I die. Things are in a sad tangle; I can't see the way out.  But the worst enemy has been slain, in spite of us.  We are well rid of slavery.QQ
BBBut the negro we still have with us,QQ
BBfor here comes my man Dave.  What is it, Dave?QQ
BBDoctuh Green,QQ
BBI fuhgot ter tell you, suh, dat dat young 'oman wuz at de office agin jes' befo' you come in, an' said fer you to go right down an' see her mammy ez soon ez you could.QQ
BBAh, yes, and you've just remembered it!  I'm afraid you're entirely too forgetful for a doctor's office.  You forgot about old Mrs. Latimer, the other day, and when I got there she had almost choked to death.  Now get back to the office, and remember, the next time you forget anything, I'll hire another boy; remember that!  That boy's head,QQ
BBreminds me of nothing so much as a dried gourd, with a handful of cowpeas rattling around it, in lieu of gray matter.  An old woman out in Redbank got a fishbone in her throat, the other day, and nearly choked to death before I got there.  A white woman, sir, came very near losing her life because of a lazy, trifling negro!QQ
BBI should think you would discharge him, sir,QQ
BBWhat would be the use?QQ
BBAll negroes are alike, except that now and then there's a pretty woman along the border-line. Take this patient of mine, for instance,--I'll call on her after dinner, her case is not serious,--thirty years ago she would have made any man turn his head to look at her.  You know who I mean, don't you, judge?QQ
BBYes.  I think so,QQ
BBI've transacted a little business for her now and then.QQ
BBI don't know whether you've seen the daughter or not--I'm sure you haven't for the past year or so, for she's been away.  But she's in town now, and, by Jove, the girl is really beautiful. And I'm a judge of beauty.  Do you remember my wife thirty years ago, judge?QQ
BBShe was a very handsome woman, Ed,QQ
BBIf I had been twenty years younger, I should have cut you out.QQ
BBYou mean you would have tried.  But as I was saying, this girl is a beauty; I reckon we might guess where she got some of it, eh, Judge? Human nature is human nature, but it's a d--d shame that a man should beget a child like that and leave it to live the life open for a negro. If she had been born white, the young fellows would be tumbling over one another to get her.  Her mother would have to look after her pretty closely as things are, if she stayed here; but she disappeared mysteriously a year or two ago, and has been at the North, I'm told, passing for white. She'll probably marry a Yankee; he won't know any better, and it will serve him right--she's only too white for them. She has a very striking figure, something on the Greek order, stately and slow-moving.  She has the manners of a lady, too--a beautiful woman, if she is a nigger!QQ
BBI quite agree with you, Ed,QQ
BBthat the mother had better look closely after the daughter.QQ
BBAh, no, judge,QQ
BBmy admiration for beauty is purely abstract.  Twenty-five years ago, when I was youngerQQ
BBWhen you were young,QQ
BBWhen you and I were younger,QQ
BBtwenty-five years ago, I could not have answered for myself.  But I would advise the girl to stay at the North, if she can. She's certainly out of place around here.QQ
BBYou'll find everything there, sir,--the note, the contract, and some correspondence that will give you the hang of the thing.  Will you be able to look over them to-day?  I should like,QQ
BBto go back to-morrow.QQ
BBWhat!QQ
BBinsult our town by staying only one day?  It won't be long enough to get acquainted with our young ladies.  Patesville girls are famous for their beauty.  But perhaps there's a loadstone in South Carolina to draw you back?  Ah, you change color! To my mind there's nothing finer than the ingenuous blush of youth.  But we'll spare you if you'll answer one question--is it serious?QQ
BBI'm to be married in two weeks, sir,QQ
BBGood boy!QQ
BBYou ought to have married a Patesville girl, but you people down towards the eastern counties seldom come this way, and we are evidently too late to catch you.QQ
BBI'll look your papers over this morning,QQ
BBand when I come from dinner will stop at the court house and examine the records and see whether there's anything we can get hold of.  If you'll drop in around three or four o'clock, I may be able to give you an opinion.QQ
BBNow, George,QQ
BBwe'll go back to the office for a spell, and then I'll take you home with me to luncheon.QQ
BBOh, you must come!  Mrs. Green would never forgive me if I didn't bring you.  Strangers are rare birds in our society, and when they come we make them welcome.  Our enemies may overturn our institutions, and try to put the bottom rail on top, but they cannot destroy our Southern hospitality. There are so many carpet-baggers and other social vermin creeping into the South, with the Yankees trying to force the niggers on us, that it's a genuine pleasure to get acquainted with another real Southern gentleman, whom one can invite into one's house without fear of contamination, and before whom one can express his feelings freely and be sure of perfect sympathy.QQ
BBIt is the Walden woman's daughter, as sure as fate!  Her name is Rena. Her brother goes by the name of Warwick.  She has come to visit her sick mother.  My young client, Green's relation, is her lover--is engaged to marry her--is in town, and is likely to meet her!QQ
BBWell, here we are again, as the clown in the circus remarks,QQ
BBTen years ago, in a moment of sentimental weakness and of quixotic loyalty to the memory of an old friend,--who, by the way, had not cared enough for his own children to take them away from the South, as he might have done, or to provide for them handsomely, as he perhaps meant to do,--I violated the traditions of my class and stepped from the beaten path to help the misbegotten son of my old friend out of the slough of despond, in which he had learned, in some strange way, that he was floundering.  Ten years later, the ghost of my good deed returns to haunt me, and makes me doubt whether I have wrought more evil than good.  I wonder,QQ
BBif he will find her out?QQ
BBIf he found her out, would he by any possibility marry her?QQ
BBIt is not likely,QQ
BBIf he made the discovery here, the facts would probably leak out in the town.  It is something that a man might do in secret, but only a hero or a fool would do openly.QQ
BBIt may be the unwisest thing I ever did,QQ
BBand may result in more harm than good; but I was always from childhood in sympathy with the under dog.  There is certainly as much reason in my helping the girl as the boy, for being a woman, she is less able to help herself.QQ
BBMrs. Molly Walden.QQ
BBHere, Billy,QQ
BBtake this to Mis' Molly Walden.  Do you know where she lives--down on Front Street, in the house behind the cedars?QQ
BBYas, suh, I knows de place.QQ
BBMake haste, now.  When you come back and tell me what she says, I'll give you ten cents.  On second thoughts, I shall be gone to lunch, so here's your money,QQ
BBLaws-a-massy!QQ
BBwhat is it?QQ
BBIt's a lettuh, ma'm,QQ
BBWho's it fur?QQ
BBIt's fuh you, ma'm,QQ
BBAn' who's it from?QQ
BBF'm ole Jedge Straight, ma'm.  He tole me ter fetch it ter you.  Is you got a roasted 'tater you could gimme, ma'm?QQ
BBShorely, chile.  I'll have Aunt Zilphy fetch you a piece of 'tater pone, if you'll hol' on a minute.QQ
BBI wonder,QQ
BBwhat old Judge Straight can be writin' to me about.  Oh, boy!QQ
BBYas 'm,QQ
BBCan you read writin'?QQ
BBNo 'm.QQ
BBAll right.  Never mind.QQ
BBI reckon it's somethin' mo' 'bout the taxes,QQ
BBor maybe somebody wants to buy one er my lots.  Rena'll be back terreckly, an' she kin read it an' find out. I'm glad my child'en have be'n to school. They never could have got where they are now if they hadn't.QQ
BBNow 's de time, boy, fer you ter be lookin' roun' fer some nice gal er yo' own color, w'at'll 'preciate you, an' won't be 'shamed er you. You're wastin' time, boy, wastin' time, shootin' at a mark outer yo' range.QQ
BBI would n' want ter skeer her,QQ
BBer make her feel bad, an' dat's w'at I'd mos' lackly do ef she seed me.  She'll be better off wid me out'n de road.  She'll marry dat rich w'ite gent'eman,--he won't never know de diffe'nce,--an' be a w'ite lady, ez she would 'a' be'n, ef some ole witch had n' changed her in her cradle.  But maybe some time she'll 'member de little nigger w'at use' ter nuss her w'en she woz a chile, an' fished her out'n de ole canal, an' would 'a' died fer her ef it would 'a' done any good.QQ
BBEf dat man sees her in dis town,QQ
BBdere'll be trouble.  She don't know HE'S here, an' I'll bet he don't know SHE'S here.QQ
BBIf she's found out,QQ
BBshe'll come back to her mother, and you can see her every day.QQ
BBIs Miss Rena here?QQ
BBNo, Frank; she went up town 'bout an hour ago to see the doctor an' git me some camphor gum.QQ
BBI wonder what in the worl 's the matter with Frank,QQ
BBEf he hadn't be'n in such a hurry, I'd 'a' axed him to read Judge Straight's letter.  But Rena'll be home soon.QQ
BBYas,QQ
BBshe wuz here a little w'ile ago, an' said she wuz gwine downstairs ter de drugsto'.  I would n' be s'prise' ef you'd fin' her dere now.QQ
BBThe Hill.QQ
BBIs he well off, Ed?QQ
BBLots of land, and plenty of money, if he is ever able to collect it. He has inherited two estates.QQ
BBHe's a good-looking fellow,QQ
BBIs he married?QQ
BBThere you go again,QQ
BBTo a woman with marriageable daughters all roads lead to matrimony, the centre of a woman's universe.  All men must be sized up by their matrimonial availability.  No, he isn't married.QQ
BBThat's nice,QQ
BBI think we ought to ask him to stay with us while he is in town, don't you?QQ
BBHe's not married,QQ
BBbut the next best thing--he's engaged.QQ
BBCome to think of it,QQ
BBI'm afraid we wouldn't have the room to spare, and the girls would hardly have time to entertain him. But we'll have him up several times.  I like his looks.  I wish you had sent me word he was coming; I'd have had a better luncheon.QQ
BBMake him a salad,QQ
BBand get out a bottle of the best claret.  Thank God, the Yankees didn't get into my wine cellar! The young man must be treated with genuine Southern hospitality,--even if he were a Mormon and married ten times over.QQ
BBIndeed, he would not, Ed,--the idea!  I'm ashamed of you.  Hurry back to the parlor and talk to him.  The girls may want to primp a little before luncheon; we don't have a young man every day.QQ
BBBeauty unadorned,QQ
BBis adorned the most.  My profession qualifies me to speak upon the subject.  They are the two handsomest young women in Patesville, and the daughters of the most beautifulQQ
BBDon't you dare to say the word,QQ
BBI shall never grow old while I am living with a big boy like you.  But I must go and make the salad.QQ
BBlost cause,QQ
BBI was offered a thousand acres, the other day, at twenty-five cents an acre,QQ
BBThe owner is so land-poor that he can't pay the taxes.  They have taken our negroes and our liberties.  It may be better for our grandchildren that the negroes are free, but it's confoundedly hard on us to take them without paying for them.  They may exalt our slaves over us temporarily, but they have not broken our spirit, and cannot take away our superiority of blood and breeding.  In time we shall regain control.  The negro is an inferior creature; God has marked him with the badge of servitude, and has adjusted his intellect to a servile condition.  We will not long submit to his domination.  I give you a toast, sir:  The Anglo-Saxon race: may it remain forever, as now, the head and front of creation, never yielding its rights, and ready always to die, if need be, in defense of its liberties!QQ
BBWith all my heart, sir,QQ
BBwith all my heart, sir, if the ladies will permit me.QQ
BBWe will join you,QQ
BBAnd now, my dear George,QQ
BBto change one good subject for another, tell us who is the favored lady?QQ
BBA Miss Rowena Warwick, sir,QQ
BBA good, strong old English name,QQ
BBThe heroine of 'Ivanhoe'!QQ
BBWarwick the Kingmaker!QQ
BBIs she tall and fair, and dignified and stately?QQ
BBShe is tall, dark rather than fair, and full of tender grace and sweet humility.QQ
BBShe should have been named Rebecca instead of Rowena,QQ
BBTell us something about her people,QQ
BBHer brother is the most prominent lawyer of Clarence.  They live in a fine old family mansion, and are among the best people of the town.QQ
BBQuite right, my boy,QQ
BBNone but the best are good enough for the best. You must bring her to Patesville some day.  But bless my life!QQ
BBI must be going. Will you stay with the ladies awhile, or go back down town with me?QQ
BBI think I had better go with you, sir.  I shall have to see Judge Straight.QQ
BBVery well.  But you must come back to supper, and we'll have a few friends in to meet you. You must see some of the best people.QQ
BBThere's a man here, doctor, who's been taken suddenly ill.  Can you come in a minute?QQ
BBI suppose I'll have to.  Will you wait for me here, George, or will you drive down to the office?  I can walk the rest of the way.QQ
BBI think I'll wait here, doctor,QQ
BBI'll step up to my room a moment.  I'll be back by the time you're ready.QQ
BBAnything wanted, Dave?QQ
BBDat young 'oman's be'n heah ag'in, suh, an' wants ter see you bad. She's in de drugstore dere now, suh.  Bless Gawd!QQ
BBI 'membered dat.  Dis yer recommemb'ance er mine is gwine ter git me inter trouble ef I don' look out, an' dat's a fac', sho'.QQ
BBJust keep your seat, George,QQ
BBuntil I have spoken to the young woman, and then we'll go across to Straight's.  Or, if you'll drive along a little farther, you can see the girl through the window.  She's worth the trouble, if you like a pretty face.QQ
BBIs the doctor in?QQ
BBNo, suh,QQ
BBhe's gone ter see de young cullud gal w'at fainted w'en de doctah was wid you yistiddy.QQ
BBCan you tell me who lives there?QQ
BBA callud 'oman, suh,QQ
BBMis' Molly Walden an' her daughter Rena.QQ
BBfreedomQQ
BBold issue free negroes,QQ
BBhallQQ
BBSir, I want to be a lawyer!QQ
BBGod bless me!QQ
BBIt is a singular desire, from a singular source, and expressed in a singular way.  Who the devil are you, sir, that wish so strange a thing as to become a lawyer--everybody's servant?QQ
BBAnd everybody's master, sir,QQ
BBThat is a matter of opinion, and open to argument,QQ
BBthough there may be a grain of truth in what you say. But what is your name, Mr. Would-be-lawyer?QQ
BBJohn Walden, sir,QQ
BBJohn Walden?--Walden?QQ
BBWhat Walden can that be?  Do you belong in town?QQ
BBYes, sir.QQ
BBHumph!  I can't imagine who you are.  It's plain that you are a lad of good blood, and yet I don't know whose son you can be.  What is your father's name?QQ
BBIt is a wise son,QQ
BBthat knows his own father.  He is a bright lad, and will have this question put to him more than once.  I'll see how he will answer it.QQ
BBMy father's dead,QQ
BBI'm Mis' Molly Walden's son.QQ
BBGod bless my soul!QQ
BBand you want to be a lawyer!QQ
BBYes, sir.  Why not?QQ
BBHe wants to be a lawyer, and he asks me why not!QQ
BBArchie, I'm coming in to have you draw my will.  There are some children for whom I would like to make ample provision.  I can't give them anything else, but money will make them free of the world.QQ
BBWhy, indeed, should he not be a lawyer, or anything else that a man might be, if it be in him?QQ
BBSit down,QQ
BBYou want to be a lawyer,QQ
BBYou are aware, of course, that you are a negro?QQ
BBI am white,QQ
BBand I am free, as all my people were before me.QQ
BBYou are black.QQ
BBand you are not free.  You cannot travel without your papers; you cannot secure accommodations at an inn; you could not vote, if you were of age; you cannot be out after nine o'clock without a permit.  If a white man struck you, you could not return the blow, and you could not testify against him in a court of justice. You are black, my lad, and you are not free.  Did you ever hear of the Dred Scott decision, delivered by the great, wise, and learned Judge Taney?QQ
BBNo, sir,QQ
BBIt is too long to read,QQ
BBbut it says in substance, as quoted by this author, that negroes are beings 'of an inferior order, and altogether unfit to associate with the white race, either in social or political relations; in fact, so inferior that they have no rights which the white man is bound to respect, and that the negro may justly and lawfully be reduced to slavery for his benefit.'  That is the law of this nation, and that is the reason why you cannot be a lawyer.QQ
BBIt may all be true,QQ
BBbut it don't apply to me.  It says 'the negro.'  A negro is black; I am white, and not black.QQ
BBBlack as ink, my lad,QQ
BB'One touch of nature makes the whole world kin,' says the poet.  Somewhere, sometime, you had a black ancestor.  One drop of black blood makes the whole man black.QQ
BBWhy shouldn't it be the other way, if the white blood is so much superior?QQ
BBBecause it is more convenient as it is--and more profitable.QQ
BBIt is not right,QQ
BBGod bless me!QQ
BBhe is invading the field of ethics!  He will be questioning the righteousness of slavery next! I'm afraid you wouldn't make a good lawyer, in any event.  Lawyers go by the laws--they abide by the accomplished fact; to them, whatever is, is right. The laws do not permit men of color to practice law, and public sentiment would not allow one of them to study it.QQ
BBI had thought,QQ
BBthat I might pass for white.  There are white people darker than I am.QQ
BBAh, well, that is another matter; butQQ
BBThat is another matter,QQ
BBHere you have started as black, and must remain so. But if you wish to move away, and sink your past into oblivion, the case might be different.  Let us see what the law is; you might not need it if you went far enough, but it is well enough to be within it--liberty is sweeter when founded securely on the law.QQ
BBThe color line is drawn in North Carolina at four generations removed from the negro; there have been judicial decisions to that effect.  I imagine that would cover your case.  But let us see what South Carolina may say about it,QQ
BBI think the law is even more liberal there.  Ah, this is the place:--  BB'The term mulatto,'QQ
BB'is not invariably applicable to every admixture of African blood with the European, nor is one having all the features of a white to be ranked with the degraded class designated by the laws of this State as persons of color, because of some remote taint of the negro race.  Juries would probably be justified in holding a person to be white in whom the admixture of African blood did not exceed one eighth.  And even where color or feature are doubtful, it is a question for the jury to decide by reputation, by reception into society, and by their exercise of the privileges of the white man, as well as by admixture of blood.'QQ
BBThen I need not be black?QQ
BBNo,QQ
BByou need not be black, away from Patesville. You have the somewhat unusual privilege, it seems, of choosing between two races, and if you are a lad of spirit, as I think you are, it will not take you long to make your choice.  As you have all the features of a white man, you would, at least in South Carolina, have simply to assume the place and exercise the privileges of a white man.  You might, of course, do the same thing anywhere, as long as no one knew your origin.  But the matter has been adjudicated there in several cases, and on the whole I think South Carolina is the place for you. They're more liberal there, perhaps because they have many more blacks than whites, and would like to lessen the disproportion.QQ
BBFrom this time on,QQ
BBI am white.QQ
BBSoftly, softly, my Caucasian fellow citizen,QQ
BBYou are white in the abstract, before the law.  You may cherish the fact in secret, but I would not advise you to proclaim it openly just yet.  You must wait until you go away--to South Carolina.QQ
BBAnd can I learn to be a lawyer, sir?QQ
BBIt seems to me that you ought to be reasonably content for one day with what you have learned already.  You cannot be a lawyer until you are white, in position as well as in theory, nor until you are twenty-one years old.  I need an office boy.  If you are willing to come into my office, sweep it, keep my books dusted, and stay here when I am out, I do not care.  To the rest of the town you will be my servant, and still a negro.  If you choose to read my books when no one is about and be white in your own private opinion, I have no objection. When you have made up your mind to go away, perhaps what you have read may help you.  But mum 's the word! If I hear a whisper of this from any other source, out you go, neck and crop!  I am willing to help you make a man of yourself, but it can only be done under the rose.QQ
BBNev' min', sis,QQ
BBBe a good little gal, an' some o' these days I'll come back to see you and bring you somethin' fine.QQ
BBHe's gone over on the other side.QQ
BBOh, it was cruel, cruel!QQ
BBI shall never get over it.QQ
BBI know it, my dear,QQ
BBI know it, and I'm to blame for it.  If I had never taken you away from here, you would have escaped this painful experience.  But do not despair; all is not lost.  Tryon will not marry you, as I hoped he might, while I feared the contrary; but he is a gentleman, and will be silent. Come back and try again.QQ
BBNo, John.  I couldn't go through it a second time.  I managed very well before, when I thought our secret was unknown; but now I could never be sure.  It would be borne on every wind, for aught I knew, and every rustling leaf might whisper it.  The law, you said, made us white; but not the law, nor even love, can conquer prejudice.  HE spoke of my beauty, my grace, my sweetness!  I looked into his eyes and believed him.  And yet he left me without a word!  What would I do in Clarence now?  I came away engaged to be married, with even the day set; I should go back forsaken and discredited; even the servants would pity me.QQ
BBLittle Albert is pining for you,QQ
BBWe could make some explanation that would spare your feelings.QQ
BBAh, do not tempt me, John!  I love the child, and am grieved to leave him.  I'm grateful, too, John, for what you have done for me.  I am not sorry that I tried it.  It opened my eyes, and I would rather die of knowledge than live in ignorance. But I could not go through it again, John; I am not strong enough.  I could do you no good; I have made you trouble enough already.  Get a mother for Albert--Mrs. Newberry would marry you, secret and all, and would be good to the child. Forget me, John, and take care of yourself.  Your friend has found you out through me--he may have told a dozen people.  You think he will be silent;--I thought he loved me, and he left me without a word, and with a look that told me how he hated and despised me.  I would not have believed it--even of a white man.QQ
BBYou do him an injustice,QQ
BBHe did not get off unscathed.  He sent you a message.QQ
BBHe did not love me,QQ
BBor he would not have cast me off--he would not have looked at me so.  The law would have let him marry me.  I seemed as white as he did.  He might have gone anywhere with me, and no one would have stared at us curiously; no one need have known.  The world is wide--there must be some place where a man could live happily with the woman he loved.QQ
BBYes, Rena, there is; and the world is wide enough for you to get along without Tryon.QQ
BBFor a day or two,QQ
BBI hoped he might come back.  But his expression in that awful moment grew upon me, haunted me day and night, until I shuddered at the thought that I might ever see him again.  He looked at me as though I were not even a human being.  I do not love him any longer, John; I would not marry him if I were white, or he were as I am.  He did not love me--or he would have acted differently.  He might have loved me and have left me--he could not have loved me and have looked at me so!QQ
BBIf you won't come back with me, Rena, I'll send you to some school at the North, where you can acquire a liberal education, and prepare yourself for some career of usefulness.  You may marry a better man than even Tryon.QQ
BBNo,QQ
BBI shall never marry any man, and I'll not leave mother again.  God is against it; I'll stay with my own people.QQ
BBGod has nothing to do with it,QQ
BBGod is too often a convenient stalking-horse for human selfishness.  If there is anything to be done, so unjust, so despicable, so wicked that human reason revolts at it, there is always some smug hypocrite to exclaim, 'It is the will of God.'QQ
BBGod made us all,QQ
BBand for some good purpose, though we may not always see it.  He made some people white, and strong, and masterful, and--heartless.  He made others black and homely, and poor and weakQQ
BBAnd a lot of others 'poor white' and shiftless,QQ
BBHe made us, too,QQ
BBand He must have had a reason for it.  Perhaps He meant us to bring the others together in his own good time.  A man may make a new place for himself--a woman is born and bound to hers.  God must have meant me to stay here, or He would not have sent me back.  I shall accept things as they are.  Why should I seek the society of people whose friendship--and love--one little word can turn to scorn?  I was right, John; I ought to have told him.  Suppose he had married me and then had found it out?QQ
BBListen, Rena,QQ
BBwe'll go to the North or West--I'll go with you--far away from the South and the Southern people, and start life over again.  It will be easier for you, it will not be hard for me--I am young, and have means.  There are no strong ties to bind me to the South.  I would have a larger outlook elsewhere.QQ
BBAnd what about our mother?QQ
BBI left her once,QQ
BBand it brought pain and sorrow to all three of us.  She is not strong, and I will not leave her here to die alone. This shall be my home while she lives, and if I leave it again, it shall be for only a short time, to go where I can write to her freely, and hear from her often.  Don't worry about me, John,--I shall do very well.QQ
BBWell, then,QQ
BBwe'll say no more about it for the present.  I'll write to you later.  I was afraid that you might not care to go back just now, and so I brought your trunk along with me.QQ
BBLawd, no, Mis' Molly; I did n' hafter go out'n my way ter git dat trunk.  I had a load er sperrit-bairls ter haul ter de still, an' de depot wuz right on my way back.  It'd be robbin' you ter take pay fer a little thing lack dat.QQ
BBMy son John's here,QQ
BBan' he wants to see you.  Come into the settin'-room. We don't want folks to know he's in town; but you know all our secrets, an' we can trust you like one er the family.QQ
BBI'm glad to see you again, Frank,QQ
BBYou've grown up since I saw you last, but it seems you are still our good friend.QQ
BBOur very good friend,QQ
BBYas, suh,QQ
BBan' you is growed some, too.  I seed you, you know, down dere where you live; but I did n' let on, fer you an' Mis' Rena wuz w'ite as anybody; an' eve'ybody said you wuz good ter cullud folks, an' he'ped 'em in deir lawsuits an' one way er 'nuther, an' I wuz jes' plum' glad ter see you gettin' 'long so fine, dat I wuz, certain sho', an' no mistake about it.QQ
BBThank you, Frank, and I want you to understand how much I appreciateQQ
BBHow much we all appreciate,QQ
BBYes, how much we all appreciate, and how grateful we all are for your kindness to mother for so many years.  I know from her and from my sister how good you've been to them.QQ
BBLawd, suh!QQ
BByou're makin' a mountain out'n a molehill.  I ain't done nuthin' ter speak of--not half ez much ez I would 'a' done.  I wuz glad ter do w'at little I could, fer frien'ship's sake.QQ
BBWe value your friendship, Frank, and we'll not forget it.QQ
BBNo, Frank,QQ
BBwe will never forget it, and you shall always be our good friend.QQ
BBWell, well!QQ
BBef I did n' mos' know whar dis mule, an' dis kyart, an' dis harness come from, I'd 'low dere 'd be'n witcheraf' er cunjin' wukkin' here.  But, oh my, dat is a fine mule!--I mos' wush I could keep 'im.QQ
BBMis' Molly,QQ
BBI ain't done nuthin' ter deserve dat mule.  W'at little I done fer you wa'n't done fer pay. I'd ruther not keep dem things.QQ
BBFer goodness' sake, Frank!QQ
BBwhat are you talkin' about?QQ
BBYou knows w'at I'm talkin' about, Mis' Molly; you knows well ernuff I'm talkin' about dat fine mule an' kyart an' harness over dere in my stable.QQ
BBHow should I know anything about 'em?QQ
BBNow, Mis' Molly!  You folks is jes' tryin' ter fool me, an' make me take somethin' fer nuthin'. I lef' my ole mule an' kyart an' harness in de stable las' night, an' dis mawnin' dey 're gone, an' new ones in deir place.  Co'se you knows whar dey come from!QQ
BBWell, now, Frank, sence you mention it, I did see a witch flyin' roun' here las' night on a broom-stick, an' it 'peared ter me she lit on yo'r barn, an' I s'pose she turned yo'r old things into new ones. I wouldn't bother my mind about it if I was you, for she may turn 'em back any night, you know; an' you might as well have the use of 'em in the mean while.QQ
BBDat's all foolishness, Mis' Molly, an' I'm gwine ter fetch dat mule right over here an' tell yo' son ter gimme my ole one back.QQ
BBMy son's gone,QQ
BBan' I don't know nothin' about yo'r old mule.  And what would I do with a mule, anyhow?  I ain't got no barn to put him in.QQ
BBI suspect you don't care much for us after all, Frank,QQ
BBYou meet with a piece of good luck, and you're afraid of it, lest it might have come from us.QQ
BBNow, Miss Rena, you oughtn't ter say dat,QQ
BBI'll keep de mule an' de kyart an' de harness--fac', I'll have ter keep 'em, 'cause I ain't got no others. But dey 're gwine ter be yo'n ez much ez mine.  W'enever you wants anything hauled, er wants yo' lot ploughed, er anything--dat's yo' mule, an' I'm yo' man an' yo' mammy's.QQ
BBNow dat,QQ
BBis somethin' lack rale w'ite folks.QQ
BBto him that hath shall be givenQQ
BBWhat is the matter, George, dear?QQ
BBTell your mother, George.  Who else could comfort you so well as she?QQ
BBOh, it's nothing, mother,--nothing at all,QQ
BBIt's only your fond imagination, you best of mothers.QQ
BBI heared you say, Cousin Molly,QQ
BBthat Rena was talkin' 'bout teachin' school.  I've got a good chance fer her, ef she keers ter take it.  My cousin Jeff Wain 'rived in town this mo'nin', f'm 'way down in Sampson County, ter git a teacher fer the nigger school in his deestric'. I s'pose he mought 'a' got one f'm 'roun' Newbern, er Goldsboro, er some er them places eas', but he 'lowed he'd like to visit some er his kin an' ole frien's, an' so kill two birds with one stone.QQ
BBI seed a strange mulatter man, with a bay hoss an' a new buggy, drivin' by here this mo'nin' early, from down to'ds the river,QQ
BBI wonder if that wuz him?QQ
BBDid he have on a linen duster?QQ
BBYas, an' 'peared to be a very well sot up man,QQ
BB'bout thirty-five years old, I should reckon.QQ
BBThat wuz him,QQ
BBHe's got a fine hoss an' buggy, an' a gol' watch an' chain, an' a big plantation, an' lots er hosses an' mules an' cows an' hawgs.  He raise' fifty bales er cotton las' year, an' he's be'n ter the legislatur'.QQ
BBMy gracious!QQ
BBrichQQ
BBrichQQ
BBpoor,QQ
BBIs he married?QQ
BBNo,--single.  You mought 'low it was quare that he should n' be married at his age; but he was crossed in love oncet,QQ
BBan' has stayed single ever sence.  That wuz ten years ago, but as some husban's is long-lived, an' there ain' no mo' chance fer 'im now than there wuz then, I reckon some nice gal mought stan' a good show er ketchin' 'im, ef she'd play her kyards right.QQ
BBYou'd better fetch him roun' to see me, Ma'y B.,QQ
BBan' let's see what he looks like. I'm pertic'lar 'bout my gal.  She says she ain't goin' to marry nobody; but of co'se we know that's all foolishness.QQ
BBI'll fetch him roun' this evenin' 'bout three o'clock,QQ
BBI mus' hurry back now an' keep him comp'ny.  Tell Rena ter put on her bes' bib an' tucker; for Mr. Wain is pertic'lar too, an' I've already be'n braggin' 'bout her looks.QQ
BBYou're flatt'rin' me, Mr. Wain,QQ
BBBut you want to meet my daughter befo' you commence th'owin' bokays.  Excuse my leavin' you--I'll go an' fetch her.QQ
BBMr. Wain, 'low me to int'oduce you to my daughter Rena.  Rena, this is Ma'y B.'s cousin on her pappy's side, who's come up from Sampson to git a school-teacher.QQ
BBDoes--does you mean ter say, Mis' Walden, dat--dat dis young lady is yo' own daughter?QQ
BBWhy not, Mr. Wain?QQ
BBDo you mean ter 'low that she wuz changed in her cradle, er is she too good-lookin' to be my daughter?QQ
BBMy deah Mis' Walden! it 'ud be wastin' wo'ds fer me ter say dat dey ain' no young lady too good-lookin' ter be yo' daughter; but you're lookin' so young yo'sef dat I'd ruther take her fer yo' sister.QQ
BBYas,QQ
BBthey ain't many years between us.  I wuz ruther young myself when she wuz bo'n.QQ
BBAn', mo'over,QQ
BBit takes me a minute er so ter git my min' use' ter thinkin' er Mis' Rena as a cullud young lady.  I mought 'a' seed her a hund'ed times, an' I'd 'a' never dreamt but w'at she wuz a w'ite young lady, f'm one er de bes' families.QQ
BBYas, Mr. Wain,QQ
BBall three er my child'en wuz white, an' one of 'em has be'n on the other side fer many long years.  Rena has be'n to school, an' has traveled, an' has had chances--better chances than anybody roun' here knows.QQ
BBShe's jes' de lady I'm lookin' fer, ter teach ou' school,QQ
BBWid her schoolin' an' my riccommen', she kin git a fus'-class ce'tifikit an' draw fo'ty dollars a month; an' a lady er her color kin keep a lot er little niggers straighter 'n a darker lady could.  We jus' got ter have her ter teach ou' school--ef we kin git her.QQ
BBDo you think I'm competent to teach the school?QQ
BBOh, dere 's no doubt about it, Miss Rena,QQ
BByou kin teach de school all right, an' could ef you didn't know half ez much.  You won't have no trouble managin' de child'en, nuther.  Ef any of 'em gits onruly, jes' call on me fer he'p, an' I'll make 'em walk Spanish.  I'm chuhman er de school committee, an' I'll lam de hide off'n any scholar dat don' behave.  You kin trus' me fer dat, sho' ez I'm a-settin' here.QQ
BBThen,QQ
BBI'll undertake it, and do my best.  I'm sure you'll not be too exacting.QQ
BBYo' bes', Miss Rena,'ll be de bes' dey is. Don' you worry ner fret. Dem niggers won't have no other teacher after dey've once laid eyes on you:  I'll guarantee dat.  Dere won't be no trouble, not a bit.QQ
BBWell, Cousin Molly,QQ
BBhow does the plan strike you?QQ
BBEf Rena's satisfied, I am,QQ
BBBut you'd better say nothin' about ketchin' a beau, or any such foolishness, er else she'd be just as likely not to go nigh Sampson County.QQ
BBBefo' Cousin Jeff goes back,QQ
BBI'd like ter give 'im a party, but my house is too small.  I wuz wonderin',QQ
BBef I could n' borry yo' house.QQ
BBShorely, Ma'y B. I'm int'rested in Mr. Wain on Rena's account, an' it's as little as I kin do to let you use my house an' help you git things ready.QQ
BBShe ought to have been born white,QQ
BBI would to God that I had never found her out!QQ
BBmulattoesQQ
BBsociety,QQ
BBLadies an' gent'emens, take yo' pa'dners fer a Fuhginny reel!QQ
BBI don't feel like dancing, mamma--I shall never dance again.QQ
BBWell, now, Rena,QQ
BBof co'se you're too dignified, sence you've be'n 'sociatin' with white folks, to be hoppin' roun' an' kickin' up like Ma'y B. an' these other yaller gals; but of co'se, too, you can't slight the comp'ny entirely, even ef it ain't jest exac'ly our party,--you'll have to pay 'em some little attention, 'specially Mr. Wain, sence you're goin' down yonder with 'im.QQ
BBI wuz a member er de fus' legislatur' after de wah,QQ
BBWhen I went up f'm Sampson in de fall, I had to pass th'ough Smithfiel', I got in town in de afternoon, an' put up at de bes' hotel. De lan'lo'd did n' have no s'picion but what I wuz a white man, an' he gimme a room, an' I had supper an' breakfas', an' went on ter Rolly nex' mornin'.  W'en de session wuz over, I come along back, an' w'en I got ter Smithfiel', I driv' up ter de same hotel.  I noticed, as soon as I got dere, dat de place had run down consid'able--dere wuz weeds growin' in de yard, de winders wuz dirty, an' ev'ything roun' dere looked kinder lonesome an' shif'less.  De lan'lo'd met me at de do'; he looked mighty down in de mouth, an' sezee:--  BB'Look a-here, w'at made you come an' stop at my place widout tellin' me you wuz a black man? Befo' you come th'ough dis town I had a fus'-class business.  But w'en folks found out dat a nigger had put up here, business drapped right off, an' I've had ter shet up my hotel. You oughter be 'shamed er yo'se'f fer ruinin' a po' man w'at had n' never done no harm ter you.  You've done a mean, low-lived thing, an' a jes' God'll punish you fer it.'  BBDe po' man acshully bust inter tears,QQ
BBan' I felt so sorry fer 'im--he wuz a po' white man tryin' ter git up in de worl'--dat I hauled out my purse an' gin 'im ten dollars, an' he 'peared monst'ous glad ter git it.QQ
BBHow good-hearted!  How kin'!QQ
BBIt done credit to yo' feelin's.QQ
BBDon't b'lieve a word er dem lies,QQ
BBHe could n' pass fer white, 'less'n it wuz a mighty dark night.QQ
BBThank y', Mis' Molly,QQ
BBI'll prob'ly come over.QQ
BBYou're a big fool, boy,QQ
BBter be stickin' roun' dem yaller niggers 'cross de street, an' slobb'rin' an' slav'rin' over 'em, an' hangin' roun' deir back do' wuss 'n ef dey wuz w'ite folks. I'd see 'em dead fus'!QQ
BBIs that you, Frank?QQ
BBYas 'm, it's me, Miss Rena.  Yo' mammy said I could come over an' see you-all dance.  You ain' be'n out on de flo' at all, ter-night.QQ
BBNo, Frank, I don't care for dancing.  I shall not dance to-night.QQ
BBBut you must have some supper, Frank,QQ
BBI'll bring it myself.QQ
BBNo, Miss Rena, I don' keer fer nothin'--I did n' come over ter eat--r'al'y I didn't.QQ
BBNonsense, Frank, there's plenty of it.  I have no appetite, and you shall have my portion.QQ
BBRena,QQ
BBMr. Wain wants ter know if you won't dance just one dance with him.QQ
BBYas, Rena,QQ
BBjes' one dance.  I don't think you're treatin' my comp'ny jes' right, Cousin Rena.QQ
BBYou're goin' down there with 'im,QQ
BBan' it 'd be just as well to be on friendly terms with 'im.QQ
BBSho'ly, Miss Rena, you're gwine ter honah me wid one dance?  I'd go 'way f'm dis pa'ty sad at hea't ef I had n' stood up oncet wid de young lady er de house.QQ
BBSwing yo' pa'dners; doan be shy,        Look yo' lady in de eye!        Th'ow yo' ahm aroun' huh wais';        Take yo' time--dey ain' no has'e!QQ
BBOh, mother,QQ
BBI'm afraid to leave you.  I left you once, and it turned out so miserably.QQ
BBIt'll turn out better this time, honey,QQ
BBGood-by, child.  Take care of yo'self an' yo'r money, and write to yo'r mammy.QQ
BBGood-by ter Patesville!  Good-by, folkses all!QQ
BBGood-by, mother!  Good-by, all!QQ
BBOh, what a lovely place!QQ
BBThat is yours, isn't it?QQ
BBNo; we ain't got to my house yet,QQ
BBDat house b'longs ter de riches' people roun' here.  Dat house is over in de nex' county. We're right close to de line now.QQ
BBDe main road,QQ
BBgoes on to Clinton, 'bout five miles er mo' away.  Dis one we're turnin' inter now will take us to my place, which is 'bout three miles fu'ther on.  We'll git dere now in an hour er so.QQ
BBYas, Miss Rena,QQ
BBde Lawd give her, an' de Lawd tuck her away.  Blessed be de name er de Lawd.QQ
BBYou have the satisfaction,QQ
BBof receiving the only first-grade certificate issued to-day. You might teach a higher grade of pupils than you will find at Sandy Run, but let us hope that you may in time raise them to your own level.QQ
BBWhich I doubt very much,QQ
BBWhat a pity that such a woman should be a nigger!  If she were anything to me, though, I should hate to trust her anywhere near that saddle-colored scoundrel.  He's a thoroughly bad lot, and will bear watching.QQ
BBHe is comparing me with some other girl,QQ
BBI seem to stand the test very well. I wonder who the other is, and what was the trouble?QQ
BBGeorge,QQ
BBI'm sending Blanche over to Major McLeod's to do an errand for me.  Would you mind driving her over?  The road may be rough after the storm last night, and Blanche has an idea that no one drives so well as you.QQ
BBWhy, yes, mother, I'll be glad to drive Blanche over.  I want to see the major myself.QQ
BBA tree has fallen squarely across the road,QQ
BBWe shall have to turn back a little way and go around.QQ
BBBlanche,QQ
BBYes, George?QQ
BBBlanche, dear, IQQ
BBMiss Jane, she loves sugar an' tea,        Miss Jane, she loves candy.        Miss Jane, she can whirl all around        An' kiss her love quite handy.               BBDe oak grows tall,                De pine grows slim,                So rise you up, my true love,                An' let me come in.QQ
BBWhat a funny little darkey!QQ
BBHoddy, Mars Geo'ge!QQ
BBHello, Plato,QQ
BBwhat are you doing here?QQ
BBGwine ter school, Mars Geo'ge,QQ
BBlarnin' ter read an' write, suh, lack de w'ite folks.QQ
BBWat you callin' dat w'ite man marster fur?QQ
BBYou don' b'long ter him no mo'; you're free, an' ain' got sense ernuff ter know it.QQ
BBWhat a pretty girl!QQ
BBThere,QQ
BByou are too late.  She has retired into her castle. Oh, Plato!QQ
BBYas, missis,QQ
BBIs your teacher white?QQ
BBNo, ma'm, she ain't w'ite; she's black.  She looks lack she's w'ite, but she's black.QQ
BBHow do you do?QQ
BBI live in the neighborhood and am interested in the colored people--a good many of them once belonged to me.  I heard something of your school, and thought I should like to make your acquaintance.QQ
BBIt is very kind of you, indeed,QQ
BBYes,QQ
BBI am not one of those who sit back and blame their former slaves because they were freed.  They are free now,--it is all decided and settled,--and they ought to be taught enough to enable them to make good use of their freedom.  But really, my dear,--you mustn't feel offended if I make a mistake,--I am going to ask you something very personal.QQ
BBThe school may take the morning recess now,QQ
BBAre you really colored?QQ
BBYes, ma'am, I am colored.QQ
BBWell, it's a shame.  No one would ever think it.  If you chose to conceal it, no one would ever be the wiser.  What is your name, child, and where were you brought up?  You must have a romantic history.QQ
BBI shall attend it,QQ
BBI'm sure you are doing a good work, and it's very noble of you to undertake it when you might have a very different future.  If I can serve you at any time, don't hesitate to call upon me.  I live in the big white house just before you turn out of the Clinton road to come this way.  I'm only a widow, but my son George lives with me and has some influence in the neighborhood.  He drove by here yesterday with the lady he is going to marry.  It was she who told me about you.QQ
BBAnd where are you staying, my dear?QQ
BBI'm boarding at Mrs. Wain's,QQ
BBMrs. Wain's?QQ
BBYes, they live in the old Campbell place.QQ
BBOh, yes--Aunt Nancy.  She's a good enough woman, but we don't think much of her son Jeff. He married my Amanda after the war--she used to belong to me, and ought to have known better. He abused her most shamefully, and had to be threatened with the law.  She left him a year or so ago and went away; I haven't seen her lately. Well, good-by, child; I'm coming to your exhibition.  If you ever pass my house, come in and see me.QQ
BBWho was the lady, Plato?QQ
BBDat 'uz my ole mist'iss, ma'm,QQ
BBole Mis' 'Liza.QQ
BBMis' 'Liza who?QQ
BBMis' 'Liza Tryon.  I use' ter b'long ter her. Dat 'uz her son, my young Mars Geo'ge, w'at driv pas' hyuh yistiddy wid 'is sweetheart.QQ
BBDese child'en,QQ
BBoughter be monst'ous glad ter have de chance er settin' under yo' instruction, Miss Rena.  I'm sho' eve'body in dis neighbo'hood 'preciates de priv'lege er havin' you in ou' mids'.QQ
BBMy son Jeff,QQ
BBis de bes' man you ever seed. His fus' wife had de easies' time an' de happies' time er ary woman in dis settlement.  He's grieve' fer her a long time, but I reckon he's gittin' over it, an' de nex' 'oman w'at marries him'll git a box er pyo' gol', ef I does say it as is his own mammy.QQ
BBWait a minute, Jenny.  I'm going your way, and you can walk along with me.QQ
BBI declare ter goodness,QQ
BBef I ain't dropped my pocket-knife!  I thought I felt somethin' slip th'ough dat hole in my pocket jes' by the big pine stump in the schoolhouse ya'd. Jinny, chile, run back an' hunt fer my knife, an' I'll give yer five cents ef yer find it.  Me an' Miss Rena'll walk on slow 'tel you ketches us.QQ
BBHello, Plato,QQ
BBdo you want a lift?QQ
BBHoddy, Mars Geo'ge.  Kin I ride wid you?QQ
BBJump up.QQ
BBDoes she go to church or anywhere else with Jeff Wain, Plato?QQ
BBNo, suh, she don' go nowhar wid nobody excep'n' ole Elder Johnson er Mis' Johnson, an' de child'en.  She use' ter stop at Mis' Wain's, but she's stayin' wid Elder Johnson now.  She alluz makes some er de child'en go home wid er f'm school,QQ
BBsometimes one an' sometimes anudder. I's be'n home wid 'er twice, ann it'll be my tu'n ag'in befo' long.QQ
BBPlato,QQ
BBdo you think you could keep a secret?QQ
BBYas, Mars Geo'ge, ef you says I shill.QQ
BBDo you see this fifty-cent piece?QQ
BBYas, Mars Geo'ge,QQ
BBI am going to give this to you, Plato.QQ
BBMe, Mars Geo'ge?QQ
BBYes, Plato.  I'm going to write a letter while I'm in town, and want you to take it.  Meet me here in half an hour, and I'll give you the letter. Meantime, keep your mouth shut.QQ
BBYas, Mars Geo'ge,QQ
BBGive that letter,QQ
BBto your teacher; don't say a word about it to a living soul; bring me an answer, and give it into my own hand, and you shall have another half dollar.QQ
BBMiss Rena,QQ
BBain't it 'bout time I wuz gwine home wid you ag'in?QQ
BBYou may go with me to-morrow, Plato,QQ
BBWell, Plato, what news?QQ
BBI's gwine ter see her home ter-morrer, Mars Geo'ge.QQ
BBTo-morrow!QQ
BBhow very fortunate!  I wanted you to go to town to-morrow to take an important message for me.  I'm sorry, Plato--you might have earned another dollar.QQ
BBCan't I go ter town fer you atter I've seed her home, Mars Geo'ge?QQ
BBN-o, I'm afraid it would be too late,QQ
BBDen I'll haf ter ax 'er ter lemme go nex' day,QQ
BBNo, Plato,QQ
BBI shouldn't want to deprive you of so great a pleasure.QQ
BBI think, Plato, that I see an easier way out of the difficulty.  Your teacher, I imagine, merely wants some one to see her safely home. Don't you think, if you should go part of the way, that I might take your place for the rest, while you did my errand?QQ
BBWhy, sho'ly, Mars Geo'ge, you could take keer er her better 'n I could--better 'n anybody could--co'se you could!QQ
BBVery well, Plato.  I think we can arrange it so that you can kill the two rabbits at one shot. Suppose that we go over the road that she will take to go home.QQ
BBNow, Plato,QQ
BBthis would be a good spot for you to leave the teacher and for me to take your place.  This path leads to the main road, and will take you to town very quickly.  I shouldn't say anything to the teacher about it at all; but when you and she get here, drop behind and run along this path until you meet me,--I'll be waiting a few yards down the road,--and then run to town as fast as your legs will carry you.  As soon as you are gone, I'll come out and tell the teacher that I've sent you away on an errand, and will myself take your place.  You shall have a dollar, and I'll ask her to let you go home with her the next day.  But you mustn't say a word about it, Plato, or you won't get the dollar, and I'll not ask the teacher to let you go home with her again.QQ
BBAll right, Mars Geo'ge, I ain't gwine ter say no mo' d'n ef de cat had my tongue.QQ
BBPlato,QQ
BBI think we'll go round the other way to-night, if you don't mind.QQ
BBI's feared you mought git snake-bit gwine roun' dat way, Miss Rena. My brer Jim kill't a water-moccasin down dere yistiddy 'bout ten feet long.QQ
BBPlato!QQ
BBPlato!QQ
BBWell, Plato,QQ
BBwhy are you absent from the classic shades of the academy to-day?QQ
BBHoddy, Mars Geo'ge.  W'at wuz dat you say?QQ
BBWhy are you not at school to-day?QQ
BBAin' got no teacher, Mars Geo'ge.  Teacher's gone!QQ
BBGone!QQ
BBGone where? What do you mean?QQ
BBTeacher got los' in de swamp, night befo' las', 'cause Plato wa'n't dere ter show her de way out'n de woods.  Elder Johnson foun' 'er wid dawgs and tawches, an' fotch her home an' put her ter bed. No school yistiddy.  She wuz out'n her haid las' night, an' dis mawnin' she wuz gone.QQ
BBGone where?QQ
BBDey don' nobody know whar, suh.QQ
BBGood-morning,QQ
BBI'm Mr. Tryon.  I have come to inquire about the sick teacher.QQ
BBWhy, suh,QQ
BBshe got los' in de woods night befo' las', an' she wuz out'n her min' most er de time yistiddy. Las' night she must 'a' got out er bed an' run away w'en eve'ybody wuz soun' asleep, fer dis mawnin' she wuz gone, an' none er us knows whar she is.QQ
BBHas any search been made for her?QQ
BBYas, suh, my husban' an' de child'en has been huntin' roun' all de mawnin', an' he's gone ter borry a hoss now ter go fu'ther.  But Lawd knows dey ain' no tellin' whar she'd go, 'less'n she got her min' back sence she lef'.QQ
BBYas, Frank,QQ
BBit'll be her own fault ef she don't become a lady of proputty, fer Mr. Wain is rich, an' owns a big plantation, an' hires a lot of hands, and is a big man in the county. He's crazy to git her, an' it all lays in her own han's.QQ
BBOh, Jeff Wain!QQ
BByas, I knows 'im, an' don' know no good of 'im.  One er dese yer biggity, braggin' niggers--talks lack he own de whole county, an' ain't wuth no mo' d'n I is--jes' a big bladder wid a handful er shot rattlin' roun' in it.  Had a wife, when I wuz dere, an' beat her an' 'bused her so she had ter run away.QQ
BBI wonder who dat is?QQ
BBIt soun's mighty quare, ter say de leas'.QQ
BBIt must 'a' be'n a rabbit er somethin' scamp'in' th'ough de woods.  G'long dere, Caesar!QQ
BBDat ain't no rabbit,QQ
BBDere's somethin' wrong dere.  Stan' here, Caesar, till I look inter dis matter.QQ
BBGood Lawd!QQ
BBit's a woman--a w'ite woman!QQ
BBMamma, oh, mamma!QQ
BBMiss Rena!  Rena! don't you know me?QQ
BBYes, I know you, Jeff Wain. Go away from me!  Go away!QQ
BBYou're a wicked man,QQ
BBDon't touch me!  I hate you and despise you!QQ
BBDamn him!QQ
BBI'll have his heart's blood fer dis, ter de las' drop!QQ
BBGeorge,QQ
BBdear George, do you love me?  How much do you love me?  Ah, you don't love me!QQ
BBI'm black; you don't love me; you despise me!QQ
BBOh, my honey, my darlin',QQ
BBFrank loves you better 'n all de worl'.QQ
BBGo ter sleep, honey,QQ
BBgo ter sleep, an' Frank'll take you home ter yo' mammy!QQ
BBHello!QQ
BBwho've you got there?QQ
BBA sick woman, suh.QQ
BBWhy, she's white, as I'm a sinner!QQ
BBLook a-here, nigger, what are you doin' with this white woman?QQ
BBShe's not w'ite, boss,--she's a bright mulatter.QQ
BBYas, mighty bright,QQ
BBWhere are you goin' with her?QQ
BBI'm takin' her ter Patesville, ter her mammy.QQ
BBI don't b'lieve she's black at all,QQ
BBThis nigger has a bad eye,--he's up ter some sort of devilment.  What ails the girl?QQ
BB'Pears ter be some kind of a fever,QQ
BBI don't know whether it's ketchin' er no--she's be'n out er her head most er de time.QQ
BBI reckon it's all right,QQ
BBRena wants to see you, Frank,QQ
BBFrank,QQ
BBmy good friend--my best friend--you loved me best of them all.QQ
BBI'd 'a' died, fer you, Miss Rena,QQ
BBWho's dead?QQ
BBA young cullud 'oman, sah,QQ
BBMis' Molly Walden's daughter Rena.QQ
